README.md, before:

# divefiles

What's a divefile repository? Well—we first need to discuss dotfiles. These are usually a collection of files placed in the user's home directory, the filename prefixed with a dot (hence "dotfile"). Each dotfile usually configures or is the state responsible for a certain program on a user's system. For example, `.zshrc` will configure your zsh terminal, while `.gitconfig` will be used by `git` to customise your preferences for that's program's experience.

These are generally collected by users into git repositories, and it has become popular to share these files to represent your machine's configuration. However, macOS as an operating system has several additional mechanisms for setting system preferences—namely `defaults`—which are programmatically interacted with. macOS also has several limitations which _prevent_ programmatic customisation—installation of App Store apps programmatically is challenging at best.

A divefile repository is operated on by `diveboard-cli`, a macOS customisation script that makes the most of what macOS provides, whilst still alerting you to customisations outside its control.

Commit message:

feat: profiles (#1)
* chore: initial profile design

* docs(profiles): profile configuration

* refactor: profile directory structure

* chore: add trailing newline

README.md, after:

# divefiles

What's a divefile repository? Well—we first need to discuss dotfiles. 
These are usually a collection of files placed in the user's home directory, the filename prefixed with a dot (hence "dotfile"). 
Each dotfile usually configures or is the state responsible for a certain program on a user's system. 
For example, `.zshrc` will configure your zsh terminal, while `.gitconfig` will be used by `git` to customise your preferences for that's program's experience.

These are generally collected by users into git repositories, and it has become popular to share these files to represent your machine's configuration. However, macOS as an operating system has several additional mechanisms for setting system preferences—namely `defaults`—which are programmatically interacted with. macOS also has several limitations which _prevent_ programmatic customisation—installation of App Store apps programmatically is challenging at best.

A divefile repository is operated on by `diveboard-cli`, a macOS customisation script that makes the most of what macOS provides, whilst still alerting you to customisations outside its control.

## Configuration

Configuration of your divefiles is managed by `divefiles.toml`, which is expected to be found in the root of the repository.

### Profiles

A `divefile` repository can contain any number of "profiles", which define how your machine is configured.
For example, you may have a "work" profile and a "home" profile with differing software installed.
However, there's also a high likelihood these profiles contain a large amount of duplication—thus, profiles can inherit from other profiles—defined by a simple, rooted directed graph structure, where the leaves are the targetable profiles that can be directly installed.

To configure your profiles, define each as an array element in `divefiles.toml`. Each profile has a name which should match with a directory in the root of the repository.
The relationship between profiles is configured via an `extends` property.

### Pools

Each profile consists of "pools", which are individual files inside a profile that configure a specific part of your system.
